(1) Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth exalts Allāh, and He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
(2) O you who have believed, why do you say what you do not do?
(3) Greatly hateful in the sight of Allāh is that you say what you do not do.
(4) Indeed, Allāh loves those who fight in His cause in a row as though they are a [single] structure joined firmly.
إِلَيۡكُمۡۖ (5) And [mention, O Muḥammad], when Moses said to his people, "O my people, why do you harm me while you certainly know that I am the messenger of Allāh to you?"
And when they deviated, Allāh caused their hearts to deviate. And Allāh does not guide the defiantly disobedient people.
(6) And [mention] when Jesus, the son of Mary, said, "O Children of Israel, indeed I am the messenger of Allāh to you confirming
confirming what came before me of the Torah and bringing good tidings of a messenger to come after me, whose name is Aḥmad."
But when he came to them with clear evidences, they said, "This is obvious magic."
And who is more unjust than one who invents about Allāh untruth while he is being invited to Islām. And Allāh does not guide the wrongdoing people.
(8) They want to extinguish the light of Allāh with their mouths, but Allāh will perfect His light, although the disbelievers dislike it.
It is He who sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to manifest it over all religion, although those who associate others with Allāh dislike it.
(10) O you who have believed, shall I guide you to a transaction that will save you from a painful punishment?
(11) [It is that] you believe in Allāh and His Messenger and strive in the cause of Allāh with your wealth and your lives.
That is best for you, if you only knew.
(12) He will forgive for you your sins and admit you to gardens beneath which rivers flow and pleasant dwellings
and pleasant dwellings in gardens of perpetual residence. That is the great attainment.
(13) And [you will obtain] another [favor] that you love - victory from Allāh and an imminent conquest;
and give good tidings to the believers.
Send note
(14) O you who have believed, be supporters of Allāh, as when Jesus, the son of Mary, said to the disciples, "Who are my supporters for Allāh?"
The disciples said, "We are supporters of Allāh."
And a faction of the Children of Israel believed and a faction disbelieved.
and a faction disbelieved. So We supported those who believed against their enemy, and they became dominant.